what do we see here?
so for the question that was asked
so for each album, give
the 2 longest tracks
we are going to search
for the best performing query
So that means
for that first solution
that we have there
we look at this cost
So then you actually see
If you have to summarise it in a number
you always look at the top line
there were a number of students who
asked that earlier.
So the top line gives
the summary of the whole query plan
The query plan is what the planner/
the opimizer has decided internally from
with the hardware & memory that I have
with what I know of the table
I think this is the best way to
execute this query
so he describes that here
the most important number here is
the last number
So the 5700 means
That is the cost to show all data
and the 16 is the cost of showing
the first row
there were people there earlier
so that is the cost
You can only compare cost prices
on the same database
because they also depend on parameters
that you can set on your database
so then of course you go and look at it like
so yeah
I also want to show the time
who else knows the option that
will actually run that query?
that will also show the time
with that explain?
yes indeed Arthur
analyze
So then you get an idea of the time
what we see here is that time
is actually quite fast
so that's 11 milliseconds here.
I think everything under...
our eyes work for example if you watch
film than 30 frames per second
so if it's a thousand milliseconds
we divide that by 30
and even 20 frames I would say
anything under 50 milliseconds is actually
to our eyes.
so then the result is
still very fast.
all that is below 50 milliseconds
so that query is acceptable with
the data that is in there.
It's not like it says
"you've got an optimisation problem here".
what do we see here?
we see here for example
that the planner
has 0.2 milliseconds rounded off
and the effective execution is
those 11 milliseconds so those add up to
12 milliseconds approximately.
So that's a query that is efficient enough
but we can check
are there any other options?
So then we are going to look
for another option.
let's see
So this was with a lateral
This is with a...
without lateral
we are going to try that one
let's have a look
yes...
now...
If I'm lazy and I want to know quickly
whether this query is the right query
how could I do that?
so euh....
that natural ok
I see a few things there
there is a counting in the subquery there
let's see...
track
so that is this track
milliseconds
So there is a count here of how many
there are who have less miliseconds
and that should be a maximum of 2
so if I look at it correctly
what is being counted here?
if i look at it quickly
we are counting here how many tracks there are that have
have fewer milliseconds.
and there may be a maximum of 1
so what do you think?
I'll pull up the previous query
query as well.
then you see this one here
so there I find a...
these results for example
and with the other query I find
something else apparently
although
let's see
pom pom pom
I'll be lazy and assume
that the first query is good
so what could I do?
i can see the difference
of those queries
so I can, for example
take that first query
and I can say
"look..."
"...accept."
I can see the difference
with that other query
the query that was given a short while ago
so
I'm going to cut and paste that back
I see I did not share my screen properly
moment
So we are going to adjust that.
sorry
so I said, euh
I'm going to paste this here in the meantime
so there was the first query from earlier
namely the one with the left lateral join
that gives this result
we have taken
a certain cost of it
That query was acceptable in terms of performance.
that was ok
and then we got a second answer
namely natural inner join
with a correlated subquery
which also gives me some results
but if we analyse this query
what do we see?
the condition here is: i'm going to count how many
milliseconds less track has
and this track...
that refers to the track that comes from here
and this t
refers to the t that comes from here
so I am going to count here
how many tracks there are that actually
have fewer milliseconds
so that are shorter
and there may be a maximum of 1
maximum 1
so I'm counting here how many that are shorter
And what am I supposed to count?
I have to count here how many are...
not shorter, but how many are...
...longer
so that's how you have to adjust this query
so how could I check that?
as I was counting out just now
suppose you have those two queries and you're not sure
you can just, it's a dataset,
you can compare these two datasets by
pasting the two queries underneath each other
without the order by and by inserting an except
I want all the data except for the ones
that are present there, for example
then I get...
normally I am not allowed to get anything
If they are the same queries
and if I turn that around I should normally
get nothing either
if I swap those two queries here
but i get a lot of data here
so that is indeed a problem
So if I just adjust this here
then you see I get nothing
so the bigger than/smaller than/equal sign
so then we go back to this query
that was given first
so then we have to use a
greater than sign
and we also want to
look at the cost of this
we will also ask
the execution time at the same time
and what do we see now?
i get a cost here of
200 to 211
I get an execution time of
150 milliseconds
So that execution time I remember is already more
because a moment ago it was less than 50 milliseconds.
But the plan
might have been different.
so let's look back at the previous one
I'm going to zoom out a little bit
that I can show both of them
so this is the plan
let's go back a bit
This was it
with the other plan
So this one here that executes
despite the fact that we have a higher cost here
we have a lower execution time here
and here I have a better cost
because I only go up to 200
here I am at 5000
but here i get...
130 milliseconds where I had 11 here.
So I find that very interesting.
We don't expect this kind of thing
what is it that you see here that is strange?
who can tell me?
so you give solutions
we look into it
I'm going to try to get them to do one thing again.
so
So we have a query where
we have this result
and we have another query where
And what's interesting
to see here?
what do you notice?
that may not be obvious to see
so i'll put it down schematically
on paper
So with the first query we have
a cost of 211
and an execution time of
130 milliseconds
And for the other query we have
a cost of 5701 and 11 milliseconds.
Yes Ruben indeed so it might help
what you say there
So if I could just...
oops it's not connected
now it is
If I summarise this briefly
we have two queries here
One query has a cost of 211
total cost
The other one is easily greater
by a factor of 10
When I look at the times, this query is slower than this one
despite the fact that it has a lower cost